Good afternoon, everyone.
How are you doing?
Having a good conference?
Okay.
Well, I'm Brent Shank and I'm a software
engineer on the Xcode team.
And we're really excited today to
talk to you about Source Control.
We love Source Control.
It's what we work on.
And we have a lot of interesting
things to show you today.
Before we do that,
I'd like to get a show of hands.
How many people in the
audience are using Subversion?
Okay, good.
How about Git?
All right,
so it's really about half and half.
That's great.
Well, as you know,
Xcode has great support for
both Git and Subversion,
and we'll show you some
of those features today.
So...
Thank you.
So what are we going to talk about today?
Well, this is really an advanced talk,
but before we get into some
of those more advanced topics,
you need to know about the basic
Source Control features in Xcode 4.
So I'm going to go over those.
And then we'll get into deeper
topics like sharing your code,
working collaboratively,
and we'll also talk about
using branches effectively.
Historically,
branches have been kind of a difficult
part of Source Control in general,
and what we've done in Xcode
4 is we made it really easy.
So you no longer have to
be afraid of branches,
and we're going to show you how
to use them effectively in Xcode.
So, introduction.
Let's talk about Source Control in
general in Xcode.
And let's talk about editing.
Now, why is editing a relevant topic when
we're talking about Source Control?
Well, you'll see.
Then we're going to talk
about committing changes.
This is probably the most common
thing you do with Source Control.
We'll talk about viewing history and all
the great ways Xcode helps you do that.
And finally, we're going to touch on
managing repositories.
And really the best way for
me to talk about these things
is to show you write in Xcode.
So, I'm going to give you a demo.
So I've cloned a project
from a Git repository here.
It's an iOS project.
I'm going to open it in Xcode.
And some of the things you're going to
see today are new in Xcode 4.1 and 4.2.
I'll try to point those
out as we get to them.
So we're going to talk about editing.
And before we do that, like I said,
this project already
has some modifications.
It already has some files that have
some kind of source control status.
So they've been modified, added,
or deleted.
And it'd be really nice to see all
of those files that have changes.
And I can do that by using
the Project Navigator.
And I'm showing you this because this is
a way I like to work in Xcode in general.
So in the Project Navigator,
you notice the filter
bar at the bottom here.
I can zoom in on that.
And it's got a number of controls.
The middle one here is
the source control filter.
Let me zoom out.
And when I click that,
it's going to show me the
source control filter.
And
It's going to filter the list of files
down to show you only the things that
have some kind of Source Control status.
Now,
I really like working with this filter
all the time because it means when
I'm working on a particular task,
every time I edit a file,
it shows up in this list.
So if you're working
with a large project,
this is really a quick way to
navigate changes in a particular
task that you're working on.
So let's talk about editing.
So again, why is editing relevant in
a talk about Source Control?
Well, usually when you're editing,
you're editing in a vacuum.
You're in a file,
you don't know who changed it,
you don't know why they changed it,
or you've landed on a
particular line of code,
and again, you don't know who
changed that line of code,
why or when.
And by telling you these things,
we really, we feel we enrich and enhance
your editing experience.
So how do we bring that
stuff into the editor?
Well, as you know,
Xcode has three kinds of editors.
The,
I'm in the standard editor right now,
which shows me just one editor
in the workspace window.
There's also the assistant editor,
which you've probably used to
wire up your user interface
to your source code files.
And finally, there's the version editor,
and I will select that now.
So there are three modes
in the version editor.
The first is the comparison view.
The second is blame view,
and the third is log view.
And let's talk about
each of those right now.
So right now, I'm in the comparison view.
And to make it more interesting,
I'm going to select a file
that has modifications.
And when I do that, I see side by side,
two versions of the same file.
Now in Xcode 4,
the file in the leftmost editor
represents your document,
my document in this case.
So this is the document
that I'm working on.
It has changes to it.
I haven't yet committed
it back to the repository.
On the right-hand side is another
version of the same document.
Now in most cases,
this represents the previous
version to the one you're
looking at on the left-hand side,
or the most current
version on the server.
But in most cases,
you can actually choose the revision
that's displayed in either editor here.
And you can do that in one of two ways.
You notice at the bottom of the editors,
we have jump bars.
And when you open those,
you see there are many different
revisions for this particular file.
And if I want to switch to one,
I just select.
And now it loaded up that
revision in the rightmost editor,
and it's comparing it
to the one on the left.
And since it's an older revision,
you would expect to see more changes,
and there are.
What's really powerful about this,
though,
is you can select a file not just in the
current branch that you're working on.
You can select a branch -- a
revision from any arbitrary
branch in your repository.
So this is really powerful stuff.
You can do cross-branch
comparisons right in Xcode really,
really quickly.
I do this all the time.
It's really great.
So that's one way to change
revisions in the comparison view.
The other way is using the timeline.
All we need to do is bring
up the timeline view.
And this should be familiar
to you from Time Machine.
The long bars here represent dates.
And the short bars represent revisions.
So when I roll over a short bar,
I see everything that's relevant
about that particular revision.
When, who, and why.
And if I want to load that in the editor,
I just click.
Okay.
Let's try that again.
There we go.
And I've loaded that revision in the
side of the editor that I clicked on.
So a couple different ways to
choose revisions in the comparison
editor -- in the comparison view.
So we start with that because we're
going to see the comparison view in
many other contexts in source control.
So now let's talk about blame view.
Blame view is really powerful.
Well, what does it provide?
It shows you who changed
each line in the file,
when they changed it, and why.
And so you can see as I scroll
through the file here,
I see many changes by Ian, my friend Ian.
Commit messages for everything.
Well, why is this useful?
Isn't this just noise in the editor?
Well, it's actually really powerful
because if you've ever started
editing in a source file,
that maybe you haven't edited in before,
or you've found -- you've landed on
a line of code that you need to edit,
and you don't really get what's going on,
well, right now, you know exactly who was
responsible for that change.
So you can get in touch
with him right here.
You can see what the message was.
At least for me, this really enhances and
enriches my editing experience.
So something new and very cool that we've
added in Xcode 4.1 is you see this little
gear icon over here in the blame view?
When you click that,
you get a little info panel,
and it shows you everything
that you see in the blame view.
This is really great if the
commit message is really long.
Before in Xcode 4.0, we cut this off.
You couldn't copy and paste it.
So you can get to the whole thing here.
But you might notice,
you can see on the screen up there,
that when the info panel is displayed,
the editor highlights every line
that was changed in that revision.
So this is just an incredible way
to see the entire scope of change
made by a particular revision.
And you can see that
by clicking the mouse.
You can see the whole thing as
I scroll and as I scroll down there.
So this is really -- I love it.
You notice this right-facing
arrow button here?
I'll show that to you in the log view.
But when I click that,
that will actually take me
back to the comparison view,
so I get that side-by-side
view of this file again.
So that's blame.
And now let's talk about log.
So what does log view provide?
Well, this just provides you the
entire history of the file,
every change that's ever
been made in the file.
And again, it tells you the important
things -- who made the change,
when they made the change,
and why they made the change.
Well, why is this useful?
Well, if you work in a legacy code base,
or maybe just a big code base
that has -- it's very deep,
there are lots of things going on in it,
sometimes you command-click
and you end up in a file that
you've never been in before.
And I find log view really
helpful in that case,
because if I see that no one has changed
the file in five years or ten years,
I know it's a pretty good sign
that I should get out of there
and not change it either.
So I talked about this
right-facing button here,
arrow button, and if I click that,
which I'll do here,
this will take me back
to the comparison view,
and it will load up that version of
the file in the left-hand editor,
and then the version previous to
that in the right-most editor.
So really quick and easy ways
to scrub through the history
of a particular source file.
Oh,
I forgot to mention the most important
thing about this view over here,
and about all of these.
These are not just read-only views.
These are not just toys.
They're actually real editors.
So you can see over here,
again I'm in the comparison view,
I see a diff here
because there's a change,
a difference between these two files.
I can delete that right there.
It's actually a live editor.
I have code completion,
I have quick help,
I have everything I could
expect in the editor.
I have the find bar, the jump bar,
everything.
And again,
you'll see this is useful in other
contexts too when we get there.
So I encourage you to use the
Version editor as your day-to-day editor,
because it provides all this rich history
of your repository right in the editor.
So, we've talked about editing
and how Source Control can
enhance the editing experience.
Now let's talk about committing.
You probably commit, well,
maybe you commit more than
anything else every day.
And how do we do that in Xcode?
Well, you might be thinking to yourself,
"Why commit from Xcode?
Why don't I just keep using Terminal
like I've done for years?" Well,
if you're like me and you've ever
perpetrated a commit blunder,
we've all done this, right?
You leave in some debug logging
statement and your QA person tells you
that you slowed your app down by 50%,
or you've inadvertently changed a file,
committed a file that you didn't mean to,
or maybe you've even broken the build.
We do that at Apple,
we get in big trouble.
It's easy to do these things when you
commit from Terminal because especially
if you're working on a big task,
you might have 25 files, a lot of files,
a lot of changes.
And when you do a diff
on the command line,
it's hard to see everything that
you've--every change that you've made.
So, but when you do it in Xcode,
when you do it in a
graphical environment,
you get a much better user experience
and you can make sure that you're
committing exactly what you want.
So to do that from Xcode,
I'll go to the File menu,
I'll select the Source Control submenu
and select Commit.
So this is the commit sheet.
There are two major parts of it.
There's the Navigator area on the left,
and there's the
Version editor on the right,
the comparison view.
There are three navigators.
The first one is the Project View,
and that represents all the files that
have some kind of source control status,
and it shows them to you as they would
appear in the Project Navigator in Xcode,
so organized by groups and whatnot.
The second navigator is
the File System View,
and that shows you all the files that
have some kind of source control status
as they appear in the file system.
So the blue folders represent
actual directories on disk.
And finally,
the third navigator is the flat view,
and it just shows you a flat
alphabetical list of files.
Now, all the navigators have a
number of things in common.
They all have a column of
checkboxes along the left-hand side,
and they all have a column of
status cells on the right-hand side.
Well, what does a checkbox mean?
The checkbox means that if it's checked,
this file is going to be
committed as part of this commit.
If it's unchecked, the file will not be.
I'll uncheck my class.h here.
And the status cells on the right-hand
side show you what kind of change has
been made to that particular file.
So you're probably familiar with this
from the command line tools you use.
So A means it's been added,
M means it's been modified,
and when I select a modified file,
I see the change that's made there.
We also show you files
that are unversioned,
so files that your
Source Control repository
doesn't yet know about.
Those up here with the
question mark here.
A new feature we've added in Xcode
4.1 is you can actually include that,
add that file or directory to the commit
just by clicking the checkbox right here.
And another thing we've added
in Xcode 4.1 is we now show you
files in this list that Xcode
manages but that don't necessarily
appear in the project navigator.
So things like your breakpoints file.
Whenever you add a breakpoint in Xcode,
Xcode keeps track of that
in this breakpoints file.
And there's also a user
data directory here.
Xcode stores some other stuff there.
We definitely recommend you
add some of this stuff to
Source Control and not others.
We can talk about that more
specifically in the labs.
So let's, oh,
another thing we added in Xcode 4.1,
we have a contextual menu here.
So you can discard changes
to a particular document and
other interesting things.
So again, we're in the comparison view.
We have that loaded here.
And I said before, it's a real editor.
So if you want to add a
comment here before you commit,
you can do that.
Or if you find a log message,
like I mentioned before,
a very common scenario, you can actually,
let's just assume that
one is not commented out.
You can actually delete that
right here before you commit.
So this is kind of your last sanity
check before you commit these
files to your source repository.
So what's going to happen when
I press the commit button?
Well, Xcode just doesn't blindly commit.
It's going to do a number
of integrity checks.
It's going to make sure that,
especially if you're using subversion,
that no conflicts will be
created by your check-in.
So if all goes well,
I'm going to add a commit message here.
Okay.
If all goes well,
when I click the Commit button,
these check boxes will turn
into green check marks,
the sheet will disappear,
and I will feel confident that
I committed exactly what I wanted to do.
So let's commit now.
There we go.
And you can see the list of files
that have Source Control status
has gone down dramatically because
I've committed a bunch of files,
so now my project is
back in a clean state.
So that's committing.
Now let's talk about
viewing history and logs.
And we have a number of
facilities in Xcode 4 to do that.
Well, the first thing I want to do
is I want to find the log for
the thing that I just did,
for the large commit that I just made.
And I can do that from the Logs
Navigator right in the Workspace window.
So I'll select the Log Navigator,
and that's the last log in the list here.
And you can see I have a couple
of commits that I've made
over time to this project.
I'll select the topmost one,
and I have to be in the standard
editor for that to show me the log.
There we go.
And so I see a list of all the
files that were part of that commit.
Now, if it's your team's policy
to paste the entire--the full
transcript of that commit,
maybe in your bug tracking
system or something,
I commonly do that.
You can actually get to the full Git or
Subversion transcript right here.
You just need to find this button on
the right-hand side and that shows
you the raw--the full transcript
for the commit that we just made.
So, if that's part of your
company's workflow,
you can get to it there.
But there's a much--so that's for--that's
viewing the log for the last commit.
Wouldn't it be great if we could view
history for the entire repository
that this project is backed by?
Well, of course we can do that in Xcode.
We do that in the Repositories Organizer.
I'll go over there,
open the Organizer window,
make sure the Repositories
Organizer is selected.
So what do we have here?
Well, this is where Xcode displays all
the repositories it knows about.
How does Xcode learn about a repository?
Well, anytime you open a project
that's backed by Source Control,
Xcode will auto-discover that.
It will figure out what repository
is backing it and it will add
it to this list over here.
You can see I just have one
repository in the list right now.
I've only opened one project in Xcode.
You can also add a repository
using the plus button down
at the bottom of the window.
We'll go into these branches and
remotes more--in more detail later.
The blue folder here though,
that represents the working--what we
call the working copy and that's just the
on-disk representation of the repository,
of what you've checked out.
And this isn't just a static list here.
You can actually double-click
these things and open them
in the appropriate editor.
Let me go back and select the top
of this repository because we're
talking about logs and viewing logs.
So what's over here on
the right-hand side?
Well,
this is a log of the entire repository.
So you can see the commit that
I just made is right here.
And commits that my coworkers
have made are also over here.
Well, this is actually--there's
a lot more here.
Let's look at this
commit that Kevin made.
He just changed one file.
And if I want to see all
the changes that he made,
I can just double-click that.
And what we see here,
this looks a lot like the commit sheet.
In fact,
this looks exactly like the commit
sheet would have looked or did
look when Kevin made this commit.
So I see a list of files over here.
In this case, it's just one file.
A list of files that
was part of this change,
the kind of change it was.
And again,
I see the comparison view over here to
see exactly what those differences are.
One of my favorite hidden features here
is you can bring up the contextual menu
and you can copy the source changes.
And this is great if you're
suspicious about something in
this commit or you have a question
and you need to get in touch with
that person who made the commit.
And in fact,
you can do that right from Xcode.
You can notice I have a bunch
of people paired already.
I'm paired.
My friend Kerry is paired here
because I see his picture.
But Kevin, he's just this sad blank
man silhouette icon here.
He's not yet paired.
I can do that by clicking the icon there,
choosing Kevin's card.
And what does this mean?
Well, now it means right from Xcode,
both from the repository
organizer and from the blame view,
I can get in touch with Kevin.
So in this case, I can say,
I want to send an email to Kevin.
And I'm going to paste in those changes
I just copied from the review file sheet.
So this is a really powerful workflow.
It's a quick and easy way to learn more
about a change a particular person made.
Or prove that you made a change that
you actually insisted that you did.
So there it is.
We've talked.
I'm going to go back.
There we go.
So what have we talked about?
We have talked about editing and
how your editing experience can
be enhanced by Source Control.
We talked about committing changes and
why Xcode is the best place to do that.
We've talked about viewing
history and all the different
ways you can do that in Xcode.
And finally,
we've talked about managing repositories.
So now that you know all that,
you have all the basics you need
to know to jump into more advanced
topics of Source Control in Xcode.
And for that,
I'm going to bring up Kevin Lindeman
to talk about sharing code.
Thank you, Brent.
My name is Kevin,
and the first thing I'm going
to talk to all of you about
today is sharing your code.
So I'm sure that all of you at some point
have created a new project in Xcode.
Starting with Xcode 4,
you now have the ability to
immediately start using Source Control.
Now what does that mean exactly?
That means that Xcode will create
a Git repository at the base of
your new project and commit all
the files associated with that
project to this new Git repository.
This means that you have immediate
access to all of the great
Source Control features built
into Xcode 4 that we just saw.
But now that you have a Git repository,
what do you usually want to do with it?
Well,
you want to be able to configure remotes.
So new in Xcode 4.1,
we have enabled the ability to
configure remotes directly from
within the repository organizer.
This means now you can share your code.
So then you want to push
those changes to this remote,
and Xcode 4.1 has also
improved upon this ability.
So why don't we see a quick demo of this?
All right,
so I'm going to switch to my user.
And here we have the
Xcode Welcome Window.
So I'm going to create a new project.
I just want a Cocoa application,
so I'll click Next,
and I'm going to name it
My Awesome Application.
and click the Next button.
Now here we see the option for putting
this project under Source Control.
We want to do this,
so I'm going to leave it
checked and click Create.
So now we have our new Xcode project,
but if I go up to the organizer,
And look in the Repositories section,
we see that the project that I just
created has already been auto-discovered
as having a Git repository backing it,
including the initial commit
that Xcode did of all the files
that are part of that project.
So now I want to be able to share
all of this with my friends.
So I've actually created a
GitHub repository for my project.
How many of you use GitHub?
All right, great.
So.
says that I need to set
up a remote for this URL,
so I'm going to copy it and
go to the New Remote section
in the Repository Organizer.
Since this is a new project,
we don't actually have
any remotes set up yet,
so I'm going to click
the Add Remote button.
and name it Origin and paste
in the URL that I got from
GitHub and click Create.
So now we have a new
remote for our repository.
And we see here at the bottom,
there's a section listing
information about this remote,
including a username or
password if you need it.
So now that I have a remote set up,
I want to go back to the workspace
and now push all of this content onto
GitHub so everyone can have access to it.
So I'll go to the File, Source Control,
Push menu option.
And now this has changed
a little bit in Xcode 4.1.
We have seen that we now have
this remote that we have set up.
And it sees that we have
a master branch locally,
but not remotely yet.
So it gives us the option to
create it when we push it.
So I will push.
And it's pushing the changes.
And the push was successful.
So now if I go back to GitHub,
where it just had all
the setup information,
and I reload, now all of my new
project is up on GitHub.
So now that we've been
able to share our project,
let's talk a bit about
a more advanced topic,
branching and merging.
First off, branches are great.
Your repository is, by nature, a tree.
It has a trunk,
This is hopefully where you have
all of your most stable changes,
everything that you want to ship.
But you might want to work
on some large feature,
or a bug fix.
So we can have a couple of branches,
a bug fix branch, a task branch,
a release branch.
These are all things where we go to
work on large implementations that we
don't want to put on our trunk yet.
So, branches help isolate your changes.
By isolating your changes onto a branch,
it means that later on when you
want to go through and look at
all the history that went into
making some large feature work,
it's all right there
in the branch history.
If you've been working on the same
branch that everyone else is working on,
you end up just being confused because
all of your commits are intermixed
with everyone else's commits.
But then, you can also help reduce
regressions by working on branches.
If you're working on a branch,
you end up being able to less
likely destabilize other people's
work on their main branch because,
you know, who wants to implement
some huge thing and,
you know,
not be completely done at the end
of the day and then everyone else
is broke for the rest of the day
and everyone just gets upset at you.
It also helps simplify code reviews.
So if all of your work is on a branch,
it means that you can have all of your
coworkers just check out your branch,
take a look at all the history,
build and run your changes,
and it's not messing with all of
their other work on all of their
own branches and on the main trunk.
So let's talk about what one of
these task branches that I mentioned
looks like at the repository level.
So here we have our repository.
It has two commits.
The blue dots are the commits.
And master,
as Git would call its main trunk branch,
is pointing at the topmost commit,
so it has all the content of that
commit and all the commits below it.
So I can create a task branch,
and it starts off with having
all the same content as
master does at that point.
You are branching off of master.
But now I can commit to my task
branch and it has a little bit more
content than the master branch does.
But everyone else can still commit
to master and I can commit to task.
And then I can merge my task
branch into master later on
when I know that I'm all done.
Now master has all the content of both
the task branch and the master branch.
So what am I going to actually
show you inside of Xcode?
I'm going to show you how
you can create branches,
how you can switch branches,
And then later on we'll talk about
how you can end up merging those
changes back into your master branch.
So in order to show this,
this is my repository setup.
I have a local Git repository
and a remote Git repository.
They start off with all
of the same content.
I'm going to try building and then
see that there's a build error,
so I'm going to commit a fix to my
local repository that fixes that.
I'm just going to do it to master.
It's a simple fix.
I know that everyone's
going to want it right now,
so I'm not going to
create a branch just yet.
But since everyone wants this fix,
I'm going to push it up to the remote.
Now I can create my branch and it's
going to have that fix right away.
And I can commit a few features.
And I remember that some of my
coworkers wanted to review my changes,
so I'm going to push my branch to the
remote and notice that it doesn't stomp
on all the content of the master branch.
I now have my own copy of my
Kevin task branch on the remote
that everyone can check out.
So let's take a look at this.
Launch Xcode.
I don't actually want to work on
my awesome application anymore.
I want to work on my best friend.
So I'm going to build,
and unfortunately I have
some build failures.
So I'm kind of curious at why
the main master isn't building.
You know, it should be the most stable,
right?
So I'm going to take a look at the
Version editor and look in Blame view.
Well,
I see that our friend Sarah Lightwater
must have just accidentally
miscommitted this change.
It looks like she was switching to using
some new block-based UI view transitions
and must have just misspelled this.
But now that I looked at Blame,
I can talk to her about it later.
So we see here that we have a fixit hint,
and fixits say that it has a
suggestion to fix our problem.
So I'm going to take its
suggestions because I like it.
So let's try building
and running this now.
Great, looks like the build succeeded.
Alright, so what sort of an
application do we have here?
It's just a simple tile matching game.
There's 16 tiles,
8 different pairs of our best friend.
What are our best friends?
Our dogs, of course.
So if I pick this dog and number 10,
it wasn't the same dog,
so it flips it back over.
But if I pick the same dog...
We see here there's actually a pattern.
They kind of appear
in all the same spots.
If I go all the way to the end,
I should have won this game.
So I want to make the dogs
appear randomly and I also
want to make the game winnable.
So that sounds to me like a
perfect job for a task branch.
So now that I see that it built,
I'm going to commit my build failure fix,
since everyone wants it.
So I bring up the commit sheet,
put in a handy dandy commit message,
"Fixed build failure," and
click the commit button.
All right, the commit is complete,
and now I know that
everyone wanted this change,
so I'm going to push my
changes up to the remote.
So we see here that since
this isn't a new repository,
master already exists on the remote,
it doesn't give me the option to create,
it's just going to push the new
changes up that don't exist on
the master on the remote yet.
So I click push,
and the push was successful.
Now everyone on our team
has access to this new fix.
So now I want to create my branch,
so I go to the Repository Organizer,
and go to the My Best Friend Repository,
and click Branches.
So we see that there is
a master branch already,
but I want to create my own,
so I click Add Branch.
So it gives us an
option to put in a name.
I'm going to name it Kevin Task.
Now it also asks us what the
starting point should be.
That means that we are going to
branch off of the starting point,
and in this case master,
since we only have one branch.
If we know that we want to immediately
start working on this branch,
we can automatically switch this
branch once the branch is created,
but I want to show you how
you can switch otherwise,
so I'm not going to select that.
I'll click Create,
and now we see that the
new branch is in the list,
and I can even get the history for it.
It's all the same history as
master since I just branched.
So now if I go to the working copy,
the blue folders,
there's a switch branch icon here at the
bottom right of the repository organizer.
If I click that,
it says that master is my current
branch and that I have a second branch,
Kevin Task.
I want to switch to that,
so I click that one and click OK.
We also see up here that the
current branch has been updated to
Kevin Task for this working copy.
Alright,
so now I'm in the perfect spot to
start fixing some of these problems.
I also remember that in an
earlier conversation with Brent,
he really didn't like that this
"show alternate image" code here,
which ends up being called
whenever we tap on a tile,
is creating an NSRA every time.
He says that can be easily
solved with a dispatch once.
Now I unfortunately don't remember
how the syntax of dispatch once works,
what sort of other variables
you will need to set it up.
So I'm just going to start
typing dispatch once.
Now we see here that code
completion has come up,
and it sees that there is a code snippet
that it found in our snippet library
that we can see based on this icon.
This will set up a dispatch once for
us without even having to look at
any of the documentation or anything.
So I select that one,
and it already set up the
dispatch_once token for me.
And so I want to go in here and make this
a static NSRA that starts off as nil,
since I'm going to be modifying
it inside of the dispatch_once.
And then make the images
equal to that array.
All right.
But images isn't really
a good name for this.
It's a static NSRA.
So I'm going to actually
edit all in scope.
So now, every time I type,
it's editing all uses of this
variable inside of the scope.
So I want to call that underbar S images.
That's one good fix down,
so I'm going to commit it.
Give it a commit message.
"Made show alternate image.
Use dispatch once." And click commit.
Now I can go and move on
to the meat of my features.
So the first thing that
I need to do is find the
random identifier method that picks
where it wants to put the dogs.
This doesn't look really random,
so I'm going to fix this.
Now, I actually fixed this bug earlier,
and I made a code snippet for it.
So I go into the utilities,
scroll down in the code snippet library,
and drag in my code snippet.
I don't need this old random identifier.
And so this should pair up
the dogs completely randomly.
So now I need to modify tap tile,
which is called whenever
the tiles are tapped,
so that the game is winnable.
So I also have a snippet for that,
so I'll drag that one in.
So now, all the features that I wanted
should be implemented.
Let's give it a quick try.
So I'll build it and run it.
So 1 and 9, look,
it looks like they were different dogs.
I'm not very good at this game,
especially once it's random,
so I'm actually not going
to try to win it right now.
So I'm just going to commit this.
Kerry's going to end up taking a
look at this in a minute anyways.
So I will commit this.
Made the game winnable,
also made dogs appear randomly.
And click commit.
Now all my code is finished,
I want to share this
with all my coworkers,
so I need to push this new
branch up to the remote.
So I will go to the File, Source Control,
Push menu item again,
and it sees that we have Kevin task
locally but not remotely.
We have master remotely,
so it wouldn't create that,
but I want to create a copy
of this branch on the remote.
So I'm going to push it.
And the push was successful.
So now all my coworkers have access
to this branch and they can take a
look at it and review my changes.
So what did we just show you?
We showed you how to create new
projects and immediately start using
Source Control so you can use all the
great Source Control features like the
Version editor and the Commit sheet.
I also talked about how to share your
code and how to use branches effectively.
So now Kerry Hazelgren will come
up and finish our application.
Thanks, Kevin.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Kerry.
And I am going to show you the
second half of sharing your code,
which is getting changes that other
people have made into your repository.
Now, as part of this,
I'll be showing you a new feature in 4.1,
which is how to create a tracking branch,
or also known as a
remote tracking branch.
It's a local branch in your
repository that tracks a remote
branch in a remote repository.
Also going to show you
how to resolve conflicts,
because whenever you're pulling
in changes from other sources,
eventually you're going
to hit a conflict.
And then I'm also going to
share the final results.
So this is my local repository,
and these are an overview of the
changes that I'm going to be making.
And in my subsequent demo,
I'll show you how to do
these things in Xcode 4.
So, firstly, I'm going to pull the
change that Kevin made,
the fix,
the build--fix to the build errors
that he made on the master branch.
Then I'm going to make
a new commit of my own.
Now, I know the best practice is not to
make changes on the master branch,
but I'm a manager,
that's just how I roll.
So I'm going to pull Kevin's branch.
I'm going to create a remote
tracking branch which pulls down
the contents of his branch into
a local branch in my repository.
And finally, I will merge the results,
resolving any conflicts
that might happen,
and push the completed
app up to our remote.
So let's see how to do that.
So we open up Xcode,
and I go to my copy of my best friend.
Now, the first thing I need to
do is pull Kevin's fix.
So I go to File, Source Control.
Pull.
And we see that I'm going
to pull from Origin Master.
The poll was successful,
so I should be able to build now.
Great.
Now the change that I'm going to
make is to make the game winnable.
Now I know,
you're probably thinking,
didn't Kevin already do that?
Well, he did,
but I was out of the office.
I think I went golfing.
I took a long lunch.
I took my dog for a walk and forgot
that I had told him to do that.
So I'm going to make a
change in the same location.
Now, this is actually a very common
scenario where you've got groups
of people working together.
We're editing the same source code,
and a conflict happens.
So I'm going to drag in
a snippet of code here.
Similar to the one Kevin did,
But it'll make the game winnable.
And just go ahead and commit that change,
because, again, I'm a manager.
I know you guys test and
build and run your code,
but I'm just going to
go ahead and commit it.
Now, the thing that I need to do next is
to create a remote tracking branch.
And I'll show you how to do that,
because that's new in Xcode 4.1.
So what I do is I go to the Organizer
and Repositories tab and select Remotes.
Firstly, actually, let me show you,
if we look at our branches,
our local branches, I only have one.
That's the master branch.
But if I select my origin
remote and open it up,
I can see that on the remote
there are two branches.
So Kevin Task is the one
that I want to track.
So I just select it and then come
down here and say Track Branch.
Now I can give it a
different name if I want,
but I'll just leave it the same.
And I do not want to switch to
this branch because I'm going to
merge it into my current branch.
So I click Create.
And if I go back to branches,
I can see that it's already there.
Now I am ready to merge it.
So I go to File, Source Control, Merge.
And the way that merging works in Xcode
is that you always merge the branch that
you select into your current branch.
And the UI here reminds me that
my current branch is on master.
So I'm merging Kevin Task into
the master branch.
I'll hit Choose there.
And what we see looks very
similar to the commit UI with
some important differences.
First thing I notice is that
next to my file name here,
I have this red C marker,
status indicator.
And that means that in this file,
there is at least one conflict.
And I can see that conflict here in the
Version editor because it's highlighted
in red rather than the normal blue.
Another important difference
is that on the left-hand side,
this is not my local document.
This is actually the merged document.
It's the document that you will
have once the merge is completed.
So why do we show you that?
Well, the idea is that you will edit this
document and resolve your merges however
you want so that the final result is the
way the document will be or the way that
you want it to be when the merge is done.
Now, you're probably thinking,
"Wait a second.
How can there be conflicts when
we haven't even merged yet?" Now,
this is an important distinction
that Xcode makes over any other
tool you probably have used.
For example,
if you go to the command line
and do a Subversion update,
the update will--
Operation will complete and then you'll
have conflicts in your source code.
Like these funky little chevron
characters that stop your
project from building or your
source code from compiling.
Xcode 4 has the ability to identify
conflicts that would occur and asks you
to resolve them ahead of time so that
you get no conflicts when you're done.
So the end result is
if you always update,
pull, or merge from Xcode,
you will never get a
conflict in your source code.
Okay,
so how do we actually resolve this merge?
There's a little question
mark here in the middle,
and this is Xcode saying,
"You haven't yet made a decision on how
you want to resolve it." There's one of
four different ways that you can do that,
represented by the segmented
control here at the bottom.
You can choose right,
meaning the changes that are incoming,
and if I choose that,
I can see that the changes on the right
are reflected in my merged document.
Or, of course, I can choose left,
meaning my own changes.
I can also choose both of them,
left then right, in that order,
or right then left.
And for those of you who
like to use arrow keys,
the arrow keys work.
If you hit left, it'll choose the left,
left, left, hitting the arrow key twice,
chooses left then right,
and vice versa for the right side.
So as far as this conflict's concerned,
I'm going to choose my changes
because I like my changes.
Once the conflicts are all resolved,
then I can merge.
Okay.
So now we should be able to
build and run and win the game,
though I may need some
of your help to do so.
Clicking at random here.
Oh, one and two.
There we go.
[Transcript missing]
For my last act,
I will just push these changes
all up to the remote repository.
Here we go.
Yay,
now we can submit it to the App Store.
Okay, so what I just showed you,
showed you how to create a
remote tracking branch so that
you can grab code from remote
branches on a remote repository.
How to resolve conflicts, very important.
And how to share the final results.
So in conclusion,
what have we learned today?
I think we've shown that Xcode
contains some very powerful
Source Control features,
and yet they work with you,
and they're very easy to use.
You can easily share code with others
by configuring multiple remotes that
you can push and pull from multiple
repositories and really take advantage
of the distributed nature of Git.
also showed you how
branching works in Xcode.
And branching, if you've been afraid of
using branching in the past,
I think you should give Xcode a try
in its branching workflow because it's
really very powerful and you don't,
you know,
you want to be isolating your changes on
a branch and not breaking your coworkers.
And also we showed you how Xcode
lets you eliminate conflicts
before they actually happen.
It's amazing.
Let's see Terminal do that.
For more information,
you can contact Michael Jurowicz.
He's our Developer Tools evangelist.
Thank you very much.